Prior to IOS 10.2, there is a single MIB object used to perform pings
via SNMP.  This object is:
               ping OBJECT-TYPE
                   SYNTAX  INTEGER
                   ACCESS  read-write
                   STATUS  mandatory
                   DESCRIPTION
                           "Supplies a way to ping a host from this
                           entity. The ping variable takes the following
                           instance identifiers: 1 - IP protocol ping.
                           IP - address to ping. integer - count of
                           packets to send. integer - size of ping
                           packet. integer - timeout delay between
                           packets."
                   ::= { lsystem 7 }

The instance identifier for the ping object is:

        proto.addr.count.size.timeout

where

        proto   1 for IP, 2 for Appletalk
        addr    an IP address
        count   the number of echo requests to send
        size    bytes in each echo request packet
        timeout seconds to wait for a reply to each echo request

For example, setting

  iso.org.dod.inet.priv.enter.cisco.local.lsystem.ping.1.131.108.2.238.45.64.2

to any value will cause 45 64-byte IP pings to be sent to
131.108.2.238, with a timeout value of 2 seconds.

The value returned from a SNMP Set is an integer specifying the number
of echo replies received.  The value returned from a SNMP Get is 0, as
no pings are done.  SNMP GetNext skips this object.

The implementation of this object is marginal, so expect it to misbehave
if you don't invoke it correctly.  Also note that since the result is
sent in the response packet, the response is not sent until the pings
complete, which may cause management applications to timeout.
Futhermore, the only information that is returned is the number of
repliess that were received; round-trip time information is not
available.  Finally, while the pings are running, the snmp server is
unable to process other requests.  For all of these reasons, and
probably a few more, the ping object is not supported as of IOS 10.2.
In its place is a new, full-function, multi-protocol ping MIB.  Look for
cisco-ping-mib on ftp.cisco.com, cio.cisco.com, or www.cisco.com

